# Portfolio for Austin Lancaster
#### Video Demo:  <URL HERE>
#### Description:
I have created a web application to display information about myself and to show off the projects we completed in CS50.  When thinking of what to do for the final project, I wanted to make something that I could update and keep using in the future.  While I initially thought of making a mobile game for android devices, I decided that I would not be able to sufficiently create a complex and neat looking application.  This led me to my second idea: a web application.

Since there are so many possibilities for different types of web applications, I chose to go with a portfolio style.  Even though this could be done using static pages, I decided to go with a web application to add complexity.  When the website is opened, the index page is just a short introduction inviting users to browse the other pages.  On the right of the navigation bar, there is a toggle that will make the background color of the page cycle through different colors.  There is also an option for the user to sign the page if they would like.  Their signature is first passed through a profanity filter to ensure they will not appear on the page later.  Once the signature passes the test and is under the character limit, the form is submitted via POST.  In the app.py file, if route “/” is submitted this way, it will connect to a database called “signature.db” and insert a new row containing an id, the signature itself, and a time stamp obtained from using datetime.  The data in the table is then selected and used in the index.html template using Jinja.  The data is iterated over and put into a list.

The next page on the website is an about page which displays my picture, a short description of myself, and my resume.  When first loading, my resume is hidden and can be shown using a button that contains an eye symbol from Font Awesome.  Once this button is clicked, my resume is shown and the eyeball icon is changed using JavaScript.  While I initially thought of having my resume shown by default, I believe it looks cleaner this way, and some people are probably not interested in it anyway.

The third page is dedicated to CS50.  It contains a side-by-side table of contents and a text container.  When the page is first loaded, it gives a brief description of what the page is and how to use it.  When a user clicks on an option in the table of contents, the html inside of the text container is updated and information about the chosen week is shown.  Text and images are included to help users follow along with the problems for the week and how I went about solving them.  Weeks 0 to 9 are covered.  Week 10 was left out due to not having a problem set.  If users click and hold on an image, the image will enlarge making some of them easier to see/read.  All of the html is stored in a dictionary with the keys being the week numbers.  I chose to do this because I didn't want the page to reload to update the content, and this was a workaround that seemed reasonable.

The last option for the table of contents is a downloads page that includes all of the source code for the problems covered in the course.  I removed any unnecessary files, leaving only ones that contained code or are required for the program/webpage to function correctly.  While I believe I showed a reasonable amount of code and gave a good description of the problems in the other sections, I added this one for users who are interested or maybe want to try it out for themselves.  I initially had wanted them to be able to test out everything directly in their browser, but this seemed too difficult to do safely and correctly.

The final page is a contact form in case any viewer would like to ask questions or send a comment.  Initially, this form was going to be completely handled using Python modules to send an email directly to me, but this posed a security risk if the source code was ever leaked.  Since I am not confident enough in my cybersecurity abilities, I instead went with a third party service called Formspree.  Using their HTML form templates, I was able to successfully implement a contact forum that doesn’t require any sensitive information to be in the source code.  To check form submissions, I just have to log into Formspree with my account.

This project required that I learned more about SQL and Python interactions, HTML and CSS, and how to do more with JavaScript.  While I am far from having a mastery over these languages, I believe I have gained a decent amount of knowledge about them from working on this web application.
